# ZKP Trusted Setup Ceremony Coordinator

## Overview
This utility program allows for performing a Trusted Setup Ceremony in a Multi-Party Computation fashion. It is meant
to be used by the Coordinator of the ceremony, as well as by the Contributors. In the end, the Coordinator will obtain
Proving and Verifying Keys, which can be used to generate proofs for the circuit the ceremony was conducted for.

## Constraints

Gnark version used for implementing the circuit the ceremony will be conducted for must match the Gnark version used
in this project. Please consult `[go.mod](./go.mod)` to learn which version of Gnark is used.

Your Gnark project must satisfy the following constraints:
- Supported curve: BN254
- Supported backend: Groth16

## Usage

Run the program with `go run .` or `go run <command> <options>`.

Running the program with no arguments lists the available commands. Running the program with the command but without
options will display the command's help.

## Commands

### `help`

Print help.

### `ptau`

Convert a Snarkjs powers of tau file to a Phase 1 file. This step is performed by the Coordinator.

The tool does not initialize its own Phase 1 of the ceremony. It is expected that the Coordinator will generate the
Phase 1 file themselves. As a convenience utility, this command allows the Coordinator to convert a Snarkjs powers of
tau file to a Phase 1 file, which can be used to initialize the Phase 2 of the ceremony.

- `--ptau` - A Snarkjs powers of tau file,
- `--phase1` - The output Phase 1 file.

### `init`

Initialize Phase 2 of the ceremony for the given R1CS with a Phase 1 file.  This step is performed by the Coordinator.

This step outputs a Phase 2 file based on the provided R1CS and Phase 1 file. The Coordinator must provide the R1CS file
generated from a Gnark circuit and the Phase 1 file either generated in the previous step or from another
cryptographically safe source.

The R1CS file can be generated by the Gnark project implementing the circuit the ceremony will be held for. Please
see the [Constraints](#Constraints) section for more information.

The output Phase 2 file can be used for later contributions.

The command outputs a beacon value, which must then be passed as an argument to [`extract-keys`](#extract-keys).

- `--r1cs` - The R1CS file generated from a Gnark circuit,
- `--phase1` - The Phase 1 file,
- `--phase2` - The output path for the Phase 2 file,
- `--srscommons` - The output path for circuit-independent components of the Groth16 SRS.

### `contribute`

Contribute randomness to Phase 2. This step is performed by all the participants of the ceremony.

The Coordinator must provide the existing Phase 2 file to the next Contributor. The provided file is either created
in the [`init`](#init) step or in the previous run of the [`contribute`](#contribute) step. After the contribution
is done, the Contributor sends the updated Phase 2 file to the Coordinator for verification (see [`verify`](#verify)).
When the contribution is done, the new Phase 2 file is stored under the same name as the input file, with a timestamp
appended to the name.

- `--phase2` - The existing Phase 2 file created in the `init` step or in the previous run of the `contribute` step.

### `verify`

Verify the last randomness contributed to Phase 2. This step is performed by the Coordinator.

This command accepts two Phase 2 files to verify the contributions: previous and next. The previous contribution
is the file that was sent to a Contributor as an input for their contribution process. The next contribution
is the output of that contribution process, that was sent back by the Contributor to the Coordinator.

If the verification is successful, the Coordinator can either:
- send the next contribution file to the next Contributor for further contributions, or
- export the Proving and Verifying Keys (see [`keys`](#keys).)

- `--phase2prev` - A Phase 2 file being an input to the contribution
- `--phase2next` - A Phase 2 file that was contributed to.

### `extract-keys`

Extract the Proving and Verifying Keys. This step is performed by the Coordinator.

This command extracts the Proving and Verifying Keys from the constraint system object, contributions and SRS commons.
The output are binary files containing the keys.

- `--r1cs` - The R1CS file generated from the Gnark circuit the ceremony is held for,
- `--srscommons` - The circuit-independent components of the Groth16 SRS file generated on the [Phase 2 initialization](#init).
- `--beacon` - The beacon value output by the [`init`](#init) command.
- `--phase2` - A list of Phase 2 files to verify the contributions in the order they were created. Contributions are
               verified in pairs, so at least two files must be provided. This DOES NOT INCLUDE the original Phase 2.
               file generated on initialization.
- `--pk` - The output path for the Proving Key file,
- `--vk` - The output path for the Verifying Key file.
